workflowsets/tidyposterior post (#506)
tidyverse/tidyverse.org: content/blog/workflowsets-0-0-1/index.Rmd

```{r quiet, include = FALSE}
library(conflicted)

conflict_prefer("filter",     winner = "dplyr",    quiet = TRUE)
conflict_prefer("select",     winner = "dplyr",    quiet = TRUE)
conflict_prefer("slice",      winner = "dplyr",    quiet = TRUE)
conflict_prefer("rename",     winner = "dplyr",    quiet = TRUE)
conflict_prefer("tune",       winner = "tune",     quiet = TRUE)
conflict_prefer("neighbors",  winner = "dials",    quiet = TRUE)

library(MASS)
library(stats)
library(tidymodels)
library(workflowsets)
library(tidyposterior)
library(doMC)
registerDoMC(cores = 20)

theme_set(theme_bw())

data(meats)
corr_mat <- cor(meats[, 1:100])
mean_corr <- mean(corr_mat[upper.tri(corr_mat)])
mean_corr <- round(mean_corr * 100, 1)
```

There are at least two practical uses of dimension reduction: 

* When assessing the quality of the data, it may be difficult to view it in high dimensions. Reducing the number of columns to a more manageable set helps the user understand and identify problematic data points. 

> * Some models are less effective with a large number of predictors (relative to the number of data points). This is especially true when the predictors have a high degree of correlation with one another (e.g., multicolinearity). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some models do not work well with a large number of predictors (relative to the number of data points). This is especially true when the predictors are highly correlated with one another, e.g., multicollinearity. 
```

> As an example, the [Tecator data](https://modeldata.tidymodels.org/reference/meats.html) set uses spectrography to predict the percentage of fat, protein, and water in meat samples. They measured 100 channels of the spectum for 215 samples. The _average_ correlation between predictors is `r mean_corr`%. These data might greatly benefit from dimension reduction. We'll evaluate a few different approaches to find a smaller representation of the predictors when the _percentage of water_ is being predicted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, the [Tecator data](https://modeldata.tidymodels.org/reference/meats.html) set uses spectroscopy to analyze the percentage of fat, protein, and water in meat samples. They measured 100 channels of the spectrum for 215 samples. The _average_ correlation between predictors is `r mean_corr`%. These data might greatly benefit from dimensionality reduction. We'll evaluate a few different approaches to find a smaller representation for the predictors when the _water content_ as a percentage is the outcome. 
```

> We'll load the packages and data, then define a resampling scheme that is used to evaluate the models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll load the packages and data, then define a resampling scheme to evaluate the models.
```

```{r start}
library(tidymodels)
library(workflowsets)
library(tidyposterior)

data(meats, package= "modeldata")

# Keep only the water outcome
meats <- select(meats, -fat, -protein)

set.seed(1)
meat_split <- initial_split(meats)
meat_train <- training(meat_split)
meat_test <- testing(meat_split)

set.seed(2)
meat_folds <- vfold_cv(meat_train, repeats = 3)
```

> Workflow sets take a set of **preprocessors** and **models** and combinatorially combine them into a series of workflow objects. The package has some nice convenience functions to tune and/or evaluate each workflow. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new workflowsets package takes a set of **preprocessors** and **models** and combinatorially combines them into a set of multiple workflow objects. The package has convenience functions to tune and/or evaluate each workflow. 
```

I think we should avoid talking about these sets as a "series" because they don't typically have ordering

What is a "preprocessor"? That can be one of three things: 

 1. A traditional R model formula.
 1. A recipe.

>  1. A specification of column names (using [`workflows::workflow_variables()`](https://workflows.tidymodels.org//reference/add_variables.html)). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. A specification of column names (using [`workflows::workflow_variables()`](https://workflows.tidymodels.org/reference/add_variables.html)). 
```

> As an example, we'll create a set of recipes for dimension reduction for preprocessing the data along with a simple formula. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a set of recipes for dimensionality reduction for preprocessing the data, along with a straightforward formula. 
```

> The dimension reduction methods that we'll try are a few different flavors of PCA, partial least squares (PLS), independent component analysis (ICA), and multi-dimensional scaling (MDS). With the exception of PLS, these are unsupervised procedures since they do not take into account the outcome data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dimensionality reduction methods that we'll try include a few different flavors of PCA, partial least squares (PLS), independent component analysis (ICA), and multi-dimensional scaling (MDS). With the exception of PLS, these are unsupervised procedures that do not take into account the outcome data. 
```

```{r recipes}
base_recipe <- 
  recipe(water ~ ., data = meat_train) %>% 
  step_zv(all_predictors()) %>% 
  step_YeoJohnson(all_predictors()) %>% 
  step_normalize(all_predictors())

pca_recipe <- 
  base_recipe %>% 
  step_pca(all_predictors(), num_comp = tune())

pca_kernel_recipe <- 
  base_recipe %>% 
  step_kpca_rbf(all_predictors(), num_comp = tune(), sigma = tune())

pls_recipe <- 
  base_recipe %>% 
  step_pls(all_predictors(), outcome = vars(water), num_comp = tune())

ica_recipe <- 
  base_recipe %>% 
  step_ica(all_predictors(), num_comp = tune())

mds_recipe <-
  base_recipe %>%
  step_isomap(
    all_predictors(),
    num_terms = tune(),
    neighbors = tune()
  )
```

> Note that several methods have tuning parameters that need to be optimized. For our application, we'll feed the new features into a model and use the root mean squared error (RMSE) as the metric to determine good values of these parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that several methods have tuning parameters that need to be optimized. For our application, we'll feed the new features into a model and use the root mean squared error (RMSE) as the metric to determine good values of these parameters. We will combine linear regression and multivariate adaptive regression spline (MARS) models with all the different preprocessors. 
```

> 
> The input into a workflow set is a named list of preprocessors and parsnip model specifications. We'll could the [parsnip RStudio add-in](https://parsnip.tidymodels.org/reference/parsnip_addin.html) to write out the model code. Linear regression and multivariate adaptive regression spline (MARS) models will be combined with the different preprocessors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```{r models}
lm_spec <- linear_reg() %>% set_engine("lm")
mars_spec <- mars() %>% set_engine("earth") %>% set_mode("regression")
```

> Finally, to make the workflow set, named lists are created and given as inputs into [`workflow_set()`](https://workflowsets.tidymodels.org/reference/workflow_set.html). Note that we added the original data as-is using a "plain" R formula. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The input into a workflow set is a named list of preprocessors and parsnip model specifications. To make the workflow set, we create these named lists and give them as inputs to [`workflow_set()`](https://workflowsets.tidymodels.org/reference/workflow_set.html). Note that we added the original data as-is using a "plain" R formula. 
```

```{r lists}
preprocessors <-
  list(
    plain = water ~ .,
    pca = pca_recipe,
    pca_rbf = pca_kernel_recipe,
    pls = pls_recipe,
    ica = ica_recipe,
    mds = mds_recipe
  )

models <- list(lm = lm_spec, mars = mars_spec)

meat_wflow_set <- workflow_set(preprocessors, models, cross = TRUE)
meat_wflow_set
```

> The 12 rows are the different combinations of preprocessors and models.  As will be shown below, we can evaluate them via resampling using the [`workflow_map()`](https://workflowsets.tidymodels.org/reference/workflow_map.html) function. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The twelve rows you see here are all the different combinations of preprocessors and models.  As will be shown below, we can evaluate them via resampling using the [`workflow_map()`](https://workflowsets.tidymodels.org/reference/workflow_map.html) function. 
```

> However, a few of these recipes have tuning parameters that are somewhat difficult to optimize. We might want to have specific tuning parameter ranges for the kernel PCA and MDS recipes. We can accomplish that in the usual way (via `parameters()` and `update()`) then update the workflow set with these options so that they are used later. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, a few of these recipes have tuning parameters that are somewhat difficult to optimize. We might want to have specific tuning parameter ranges for the kernel PCA and MDS recipes. We can accomplish that [in the usual way (via `parameters()` and `update()`)](https://www.tmwr.org/tuning.html#tuning-params-tidymodels) then update the workflow set with these options so that they are used later. 
```

```{r param}
mds_param <- 
  mds_recipe %>% 
  parameters() %>%
  # Look at a larger neighbor size than the default range. 
  update(neighbors = neighbors(c(20, 70)))

rbf_param <- 
  pca_kernel_recipe %>% 
  parameters() %>%
  # A smaller range than the default.
  update(sigma = rbf_sigma(c(-5, 0)))
```

The [`option_add()`](https://workflowsets.tidymodels.org/reference/option_add.html) function can add these to the `option` column in the workflow set for the appropriate workflows: 

```{r opt-add}
meat_wflow_set <- 
  meat_wflow_set %>% 
  option_add(param_info = rbf_param, id = "pca_rbf_lm")  %>% 
  option_add(param_info = rbf_param, id = "pca_rbf_mars") %>% 
  option_add(param_info = mds_param, id = "mds_lm") %>% 
  option_add(param_info = mds_param, id = "mds_mars")
meat_wflow_set
```

Note that some of the entries in the `option` column have changed to `<opts[1]>`. 

> We can finally tune these models using `workflow_map()`. By default, it uses a basic grid search but any evaluation function from the `tune` and `finetune` packages can be used. We'll also pass more global options here for the resamples, grid points, and performance metric. The `seed` option resets the random number seed for each pass through the workflow set so that the results are reproducible. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can finally tune these models using `workflow_map()`. By default, it uses a basic grid search but any evaluation function from the tune and finetune packages can be used. We'll also pass more global options here for the resamples, grid points, and performance metric. The `seed` option resets the random number seed for each pass through the workflow set so that the results are reproducible. 
```

i  4 of 12 tuning:     pca_mars
✓  4 of 12 tuning:     pca_mars (8.4s)
i  5 of 12 tuning:     pca_rbf_lm
✓  5 of 12 tuning:     pca_rbf_lm (36.9s)
i  6 of 12 tuning:     pca_rbf_mars
✓  6 of 12 tuning:     pca_rbf_mars (34.1s)
i  7 of 12 tuning:     pls_lm
✓  7 of 12 tuning:     pls_lm (8.6s)
i  8 of 12 tuning:     pls_mars
✓  8 of 12 tuning:     pls_mars (8.6s)
i  9 of 12 tuning:     ica_lm
✓  9 of 12 tuning:     ica_lm (8.4s)
i 10 of 12 tuning:     ica_mars
✓ 10 of 12 tuning:     ica_mars (8.4s)
i 11 of 12 tuning:     mds_lm
✓ 11 of 12 tuning:     mds_lm (39.3s)
i 12 of 12 tuning:     mds_mars
✓ 12 of 12 tuning:     mds_mars (40s)
```

The `result` column contains the results of `tune_grid()` (or `fit_resamples()` for the "plain" models). 

There are a few convenience functions for ranking the results. To get the rankings of the models (and their tuning parameter sub-models) as a data frame: 

```{r rank}
rank_results(meat_wflow_set) %>% 
  # To fit on the page:
  select(-.metric, -std_err, -n) %>% 
  relocate(rank, mean)
```

or as a plot:

```{r plot-rank, fig.height=4.5, fig.width=8, out.width="100%", dev="svg"}
autoplot(meat_wflow_set)
```
 

> This shows the results for all tuning parameter combinations for each model. To get the best results _per model_:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This shows the results for all tuning parameter combinations for each model. To get the best results _per workflow_:
```
I think "model" is overloaded here, with two model specifications. Do you think "workflow" is OK?

```{r plot-best-rank, fig.height=4.5, fig.width=8, out.width="100%", dev="svg"}
autoplot(meat_wflow_set, select_best = TRUE)
```

It seems like the MARS model is doing slightly better than ordinary linear regression. The original predictors do well in terms of the mean RMSE. However, the correlation between predictors can cause instability in the results and this is reflected in the larger error bars for those models; reducing the dimensions may still be a good idea. 

> Once you decide on a model to keep, you can pull the workflow (or the tuning results) using [`pull_workflow()`](https://workflowsets.tidymodels.org/reference/pull_workflow_set_result.html) (or `pull_workflow_set_result()`). This can be finalized and fit on the training set as one normally would. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you decide on a model to keep, you can pull the workflow (or the tuning results) using [`pull_workflow()`](https://workflowsets.tidymodels.org/reference/pull_workflow_set_result.html) (or `pull_workflow_set_result()`). This can be [finalized and fit on the training set as one normally would](https://www.tmwr.org/grid-search.html#finalizing-the-model). 
```

## Contrasting Models Using Bayesian Analysis

```{r best, include = FALSE}
top_res <- rank_results(meat_wflow_set)
num_one <- paste0("`", top_res$wflow_id[1], "`")
num_two <- paste0("`", top_res$wflow_id[2], "`")
```

Is there really a difference between the `r num_one` and `r num_two` models? The [tidyposterior package can help answer this question](https://www.tmwr.org/compare.html). We can fit a meta-model for the RMSE results for the best configuration within each model using the `perf_mod()` function: 

```{r perf-mod}
rmse_mod <-
  perf_mod(
    meat_wflow_set,
    # Model different variability per workflow:
    hetero_var = TRUE,
    # Options to `rstanarm::stan_glm()`
    seed = 4,
    iter = 5000,
    refresh = 0
  )
```

> The `autoplot()` method for these results are a **model-based** version of the previous `autoplot()` results for the workflow set: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `autoplot()` method for these results displays a **model-based** version of the previous `autoplot()` results for the workflow set: 
```
